{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red133\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c60000\c0\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17120\viewh12960\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs48 Ash Williams responses:
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Hi Patrick,\
\
My name is Ash Williams. My pronouns are he and him. I\'92m a community organizer. I apologize for the\'a0late response. I was recently,\'a0violently, arrested by CMPD and my service dog was detained.\'a0\
My responses are in purple.\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 questions:\
\
\
\
\
-- What originally inspired you to become involved in activism? What do you advocate for?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 There are many things that inspired me to become an organizer. Mainly, I saw problems that needed a second look. I come from a middle-class, Black, military family, and I l(ironically) learned a lot about organizational structures, hierarchies, and how few people are sometimes allowed to make decisions on behalf of too many. When I went to college, like many organizers, I was radicalized and politicized by other students on campus and people in the community where I went to school (UNCC). I participated in different campaigns about getting cops off of campus, trying to get the institution to divest from the PIC, paying the non-faculty campus workers more money, and raising awareness about anti Black and anti trans violence on and off campus. From there, I went to become more involved in the community outside of the campus. My organizing led me to ultimately organizing against cops and prisons. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \
-- I am writing about Dataminr, a company that, among other things, has helped police in the past to keep an eye on protests by looking at the contents of protesters' publicly available social media feeds. Are you surprised that the Charlotte PD has a contract with this company? How do you feel about it?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 I am not surprised that CMPD has a contract with Dataminr. CMPD has relationships with many carceral entities. I feel that police must be defunded so that they are limited in the carceral relationships that they are able to maintain with entities like Dataminr, which are interested in surveillance and control. \cf2 \strokec2 \
\
-- What has your role in protesting been? What were you protesting specifically? When were you active in this role?\
\cf3 \strokec3 I have held many different roles at different types of actions including jail support hotline volunteer, direct action trainer, front-liner, social media point person, media contact, and an architect of Charlotte Uprising. I have protested for and against many different campaigns and causes including but not limited to protests in support of Justice for Palenstinian People, actions that support incarcerated individuals like call-ins, noise demonstrations, bail-outs, and fundraisers. I protest in support of access to abortion and bodily autonomy. I protest in support of poor people, Black disabled, trans, people. Campaigns that resist systems of incarceration and carceral logics are near and dear to me. I am also a professor at UNCC. I teach a Black Abolitionist Dreaming Course. I enjoy facilitating conversations about how we can build alternatives to police and prisons, how to organizer direct actions, and how to be an abortion doula. \cf2 \strokec2 \
\cf3 \strokec3 I have been protesting and learning and organizing in these ways since around 2011.\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
-- Now that things are quieter in terms of street protests themselves, what role do you currently play in the protest movement?\
\cf3 \strokec3 No Comment. \cf2 \strokec2  \
\
-- What is your day job? Does it overlap at all with your activism?\
\
\cf3 \strokec3 I don't have a day job. I was recently fired by Greenpeace USA. Please see this article: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/@ashwilliamsclt/do-black-lives-really-matter-at-greenpeace-usa-3752f756bafc"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://medium.com/@ashwilliamsclt/do-black-lives-really-matter-at-greenpeace-usa-3752f756bafc}}\cf2 \strokec2 \
\cf3 \strokec3 I am an adjunct faculty member at UNCC in the Women's and Gender Studies Department.\cf2 \strokec2   \
-- The FBI recently arrested a BLM protester, claiming that his tweets showed he was "on a path to radicalization." (See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/02/14/fbi-arrest-left-wing-violence/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/02/14/fbi-arrest-left-wing-violence/}}) Is that a valid reason to arrest someone? If not, how does this arrest set a precedent for future actions?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 \strokec3 The police don't have valid reasons to arrest people. This arrest is problematic for a number of reasons, but it does make it more possible for other Black folks to be arrested under similar circumstances.\'a0\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
-- Have you ever posted anything online that you wouldn't want the police to see?\
\
\
-- Do you ever self-censor online? If so, what information feeds the decision on whether to post something or not?\
\cf3 \strokec3 I generally am very candid about what I post online. I do not post people doing things that are considered illegal so as to protect myself and others. I use basic security considerations to determine what I want to post on various platforms. I understand that most of what I post is accessible to the state and that does mediate my decision to post certain things.\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \
-- The Intercept recently reported that while Dataminr touts its artificial intelligence algorithms, many of its results are powered by human analysts who "brought their prejudices and preconceptions along with their expertise, and were pressed to search specific neighborhoods, streets, and even housing complexes for crime, sources said." (See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://theintercept.com/2020/10/21/dataminr-twitter-surveillance-racial-profiling/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://theintercept.com/2020/10/21/dataminr-twitter-surveillance-racial-profiling/}}) Does that surprise you? \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 This does not surprise me. Surveillance is 1+1=2.\'a0\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
\
-- The city and Dataminr have asserted that they only track publicly available social media postings. Is that still a problem? Why or why not? \
\cf3 \strokec3 I don't think anyone has reason to believe that claim from the city. The city and Dataminr tracking people's public posts is a problem, yes. Certain people will always be more negatively impacted by such technologies. Those people are Black and brown people, poor people, immigrant people, disabled people, trans people, and people who are otherwise deemed as "others".\'a0\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
\
-- In that same article mentioned before, The Intercept reports that the CIA was an early backer of Dataminr. Does that surprise you? Why or why not?\
\
\cf3 \strokec3 No. The CIA is a carceral institution.\cf2 \strokec2 \
-- Do the police in Charlotte have a good record of responsibly using information on those who oppose it? How so?\
\cf3 \strokec3 CMPD has a history of targeting, tracking, violently arresting, and harming those who oppose them.\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
-- Could you describe your daily routine a little bit? Are there any parts of it that tie into your activism?\
\cf3 \strokec3 I won't describe my daily routine.\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
-- Could you describe your house or apartment and your neighborhood a bit? Is it in any way tied to your activism?\
\cf3 \strokec3 I won't describe my house or neighborhood. I have been targeted and surveilled at my house in Charlotte in the past.\'a0\'a0\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
-- Are there other local activists you can put me in touch with who might be able to provide some more perspective on the topic of police surveilling protesters or racially profiling? \
\
Jamie Marsicano- {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:jmarsicano@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 jmarsicano@gmail.com}}\
\
-- Is there anything I missed? Extra thoughts?\
}